# Day 11: Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators

> You come upon a column of four floors that have been entirely sealed off from the rest of the 
> building except for a small dedicated lobby. There are some radiation warnings and a big sign 
> which reads "Radioisotope Testing Facility".

This is a very tricky puzzle, as we can be smarter and avoid path finding. 
If we are going to path finding it, it requires smart optimizations so that the space doesn't blow. 

## Non-path finding solution.

Note that the most efficient way to move all objects 
-- with only the elevator rule that it must have at lease one object in it -- 
is to move 2 objects up a floor, then 1 object down a floor.

This leads to the following steps to move objects one floor up: 

    moving 2 objects: 1 step.  [2][0] => [0][2]
    moving 3 objects: 3 step.  [3][0] => [1][2] => [2][1] => [0][3]
    moving 4 objects: 5 steps. [4][0] => [2][2] => [3][1] => [1][3] => [2][2] => [0][4]
    moving 6 objects: 9 steps.
    moving 8 objects: 13 steps.
    moving 10 objects: 17 moves. 

So, the sequence is 2 moves per object, minus 3 (last move takes both two remaining objects and keeps elevator up)

So, in the example:
    
    F4 .  .  .  .  .
    F3 .  .  .  LG .
    F2 .  HG .  .  .
    F1 E  .  HM .  LM

- F1 to F2: 2 objects: 1 step
- F2 to F3: 3 objects: 3 steps
- F3 to F4: 4 objects: 5 steps

Total is 9 moves, but the answer is 11. This is because the first move is illegal, 
as we cannot have a floor with HG, HM and LM. 
So we need to add 2 more steps as the initial step can only be 1 object move. 

Looks like if you have a generator in a floor between an unpaired microchip and its generator,
it makes for edge cases where the optimal steps can't be used. 

    F4 . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
    F3 . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  TM
    F2 . CG CM .  .  RG RM .  .  TG .
    F1 E .  .  PG PM .  .  SG SM .  .

- F1 to F2: 4 objects: 2 * 4 - 3 = 5 step
- F2 to F3: 9 objects: 2 * 9 - 3 = 15 steps
- F3 to F4: 10 objects: 2 * 10 - 3 = 17 steps

Total: 37 moves.

Part 2:

    F4 . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
    F3 . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  TM .  .  .  .
    F2 . CG CM .  .  RG RM .  .  TG .  .  .  .  .
    F1 E .  .  PG PM .  .  SG SM .  .  XG XM YG YM

F1 to F2: 8 objects: 2 * 8 - 3 = 13 step
F2 to F3: 13 objects: 2 * 13 - 3 = 23 steps
F3 to F4: 14 objects: 2 * 14 - 3 = 25 steps

Total: 61 moves.

or just append the 4 new objects, as they will add 2 * 4 steps on each floor to part 1 moves,
so 3 * 8 = 24. 37 + 24 = 61.


So, this solution can be solved like this, but it does not account for all start positions, only some.

And for the sake of this puzzle, we can do a path finding one. 

## Path finding solution.

So, for path finding, we can use these approaches: 

- Do moves up with 2 objects (move with 1 object only if not possible with 2), moves down only with 1 object
- Once floor is cleaned, no point on visiting it

Also, let's say having `[LM,LG,XM,XG]` on floor 2. Moving [LM,LG] or moving [XM,XG] is the same. 
They should not create different paths, so we should represent the states in a way where same states with 
different radioisotopes produce the same key.

One way is to 'anonimize' the radioisotope by just creating `[number,number]` pairs of microchip and generator floors,
and sort them. Elevator will have a -1 floor as microchip. 

Therefore, the state:

    F4 .  .  .  .  .
    F3 .  .  .  LG .
    F2 .  HG .  .  .
    F1 E  .  HM .  LM

can be represented as [[-1,0],[0,1],[0,2]]

Lastly, by having the queue sorting function to comare moves, does a sort of breath-first search, as all queues with 
 1 moves go first, then 2 moves, etc. So, this is not really an A* algorithm, but it can be tuned to be by changing
 this sorting to add an heuristic, but it is not necessary as time is already < 1 second

Difficulty: Hard