# Day 19: Medicine for Rudolph

> Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer is sick! His nose isn't shining very brightly, 
> and he needs medicine.

Tried a path finding approach and failed. There are many pitfalls and holes. It probably can be done, 
but this is a way more efficient solution, and the one which is probably the intended one, looking 
at the way the reactions and the molecules from input were defined.

there are three types of reactions:
 
* first type
   
 `e => B C` or `A => B C`

* second type
    `A => B Rn C Ar`, represented as `A => B ( C )`

* third type

    `A => B Rn C Y D Ar`, represented as `A => B ( C , D )`

    `A => B Rn C Y D Y E Ar`, represented as `A => B ( C , D, E )`

## First type

This reaction gets two atoms/molecules from one atom/molecule, except the ones with `Rn`, `Y` and `Ar`.

For reactions like `ABC => DE => F`, we get 2 steps from 3 atoms, 10 steps from 11 atoms, etc.

Therefore, the formula is:

     steps = count(atoms) - 1

## Second type

The `A => B ( C )` reactions are kind of the same as `A => B C`, in the sense that ( and ) do not add a step count.

So, `A(B(C(D(E)))) => ABCDE` (or `ABCDE => A(B(C(D(E))))`), we will have the same formula:

     steps = count(atoms) - 1

Note that a match of `Rn` or `Ar` atoms does not affect step count.
  
## Third type

The `X => B Rn C Y D Ar` ( or `X => B ( C , D )` ) reaction uses one step.

    A(B(C(D,E),F),G) => A(B(X,F),G) => A(Y, G) => Z

As in, `atoms - commas - 1` yields 3 steps

The `X => B Rn C Y D Y E Ar` ( `X => B ( C, D, E )` ) reaction uses one step.

    A(B(C(D,E,F),G,H),I,J) => A(B(X,G,H),I,J) => A(Y,I,J) => Z

3 steps, as in `atoms - commas - 1`  => 10 - 6 - 1 => 3 steps

We can just count atoms and commas, where atoms is everything except `Rn` and `Ar`, 
and commas are `Y`

    A(B(C(D,E(F,G),K),L(M,N),O),P) =>
    A(B(C(D,E(F,G),K),\1,O),P) =>
    A(B(C(D,\2,K),\1,O),P) =>
    A(B(\3,\1,O),P) =>
    A(\4,P) =>
    \5

So, 5 steps that can be calculated by 13 atoms and 7 commas (13 - 7 - 1)

Difficulty: Hard 