# Day 3: Spiral Memory

> You come across an experimental new kind of memory stored on an infinite two-dimensional grid.
> Each square on the grid is allocated in a spiral pattern starting at a location marked 1 and 
> then counting up while spiraling outward.

Tried to be smart and avoid doing a spiral for part 1, but part 2 "forces" me to do a spiral anyway...

Since both parts do not share code or states, I wrap them in different functions to be easier to follow.

## Logic for part 1

For part 1, I can see a pattern on the lower right corner: 

    17  16  15  14  13
    18   5   4   3  12
    19   6   1   2  11
    20   7   8   9  10
    21  22  23  24  25

lowerRightCorner is `(radius * 2 - 1) * (radius * 2 - 1)`. Radius is 3, gives 25 
(note that Radius 1 gives the number 1).  

This helps in knowing the radius that will have the number from puzzle input. 
The outer square is 4 sides of `2 * (radius - 1)`. For a radius of 3, side size is 4.

Then, I will go back on side at a time, until the puzzle value is contained in it. 
For example, if the puzzle value is 20, then I will go back to the side with 21,20,19,18. 

Then, I calculate `distanceToCenterOfSquareSide` with:
    
     distanceToCenterOfSquareSide = Math.abs(previousCorner + (radius - 1) - puzzleValue)

As in, `Math.abs(17 + (3 - 1) - 20) = -1`. There is a distance of 1 from number 20 to the center 
of that side, given by number 19.

The Manhattan distance is simply `radius - 1` for the horizontal distance, `distanceToCenterOfSquareSide` for the vertical distance.

## Logic for part 2 

Just calculate and see when it meets the threshold.

Difficulty: Very easy.