# Day 15: Dueling Generators

> Here, you encounter a pair of dueling generators. 
> The generators, called generator A and generator B, are trying to agree on a sequence of numbers. 
> However, one of them is malfunctioning, and so the sequences don't always match.

Bruteforce takes 30 seconds on part1, so it's time for optimizations.

## Optimization 1: Bitwises

One optimization is that comparing if two numbers share the last 16 bits, 
it is easier to compare their division remainders over 65536 (2^16), because 
that is exactly what those numbers are. 

That lowers it to 15 seconds. Still, since the modulo is a 2 power number,
we can use a bitwise operator, as in

       (number1 & 0xFFFF)
       (number1 % 2**16)

produces the same result: get the rightmost 4 hexadecimal numbers (or 16 binary numbers) 

This reduces 5 more seconds to 10 seconds.

For generation 2, on checking if it is multiple of 4 or 8, I can use same bitwise operator, as
`% 8` is the same as `& 7`, and `% 4` is the same as `& 3`.

## Optimization 2: Bigints

Also, if I use bigints 
  
    const mod2147483647 = (x: bigint): number => Number(x % 2147483647n)

Code runs in 3.5 seconds. It runs in 5 seconds if I use normal numbers.

If I use exclusively bigints and bitwise operators, it reduces to 1.6 seconds!

## Optimization 3: Reimplement modulo

The remainder is 2147483647, which is a Marsenne prime, or 2^32 - 1, or 0x7FFFFFFF

JavaScript numbers operate on 32 bits, so a modulo over 2147483647 can't be done on bitwise, 
there is not enough bits.

The solution is to split the [big numbers that will be moduloded into bits](https://www.reddit.com/r/adventofcode/comments/cv24nt/2017_day_15_implementing_a_fast_modulo_algorithm/), 
and do bitwise operations on the chunks.

    const generate = (n: number, m: number) => {
    let a = (n >> 16) * m; // 15 + 16 bits
    let b = ((n >> 8) & 0xff) * m; // 8 + 16 bits
    let c = (n & 0xff) * m; // 8 + 16 bits

        b += c >> 8;
        c &= 0xff;
        a += b >> 8;
        b &= 0xff;
        c += a >> 15;
        a &= 0x7fff;
    
        b += c >> 8;
        c &= 0xff;
        a += b >> 8;
        b &= 0xff;
        c += a >> 15;
        a &= 0x7fff;
    
        return (a << 16) + (b << 8) + c;
    };

We receive a 31 bits number `n` and a 16 bits multiplier `m`. 
The `n` is first split into three separate smaller chunks with bitwise operators, 
before they're all multiplied by `m`.

Same logic as `1234 * 1000` can be split into `1200 * 1000 + 34 * 1000`, but in binary.
Note that >> "cleans" bits to the right, & 0xFF "cleans" bits to the left. 

The maximum size of a chunk (before multiplication) is 15 bits, 
that totals to 31 bits after multiplication; the maximum that JS can handle unsigned.

Next we apply some carry-overs. Our `c` chunk got the smallest of the input bits and is intended as 8 bits.
but after the multiplication it's up to 24 bits. So we take the 16 high bits and carry them over to chunk `b`. 

Similarly we carry-over from `b` to `a`, *and* from `a` back to `c`. This last step completes the cycle, 
and is where the fast modulo algorithm comes into play. It essentially applies this operation: 

    x = (x >> 31) + (x & 0x7fffffff)

the only difference is that our number is split into three chunks. Just like the original fast modulo algorithm, 
we need to run this twice as well.

Finally, we recombine our three chunks and return.

Difficulty: Very hard to optimize under 1 second.